homemade oven fries are always a
crowd-pleaser
they're tasty and go well as a side dish
to many main dishes and because they are
baked they have less fat and I don't
need a fryer to enjoy them I love that
about this recipe let's give it a try
you can use either white potatoes or
sweet potatoes or even mix the two
together today I'm using sweet potatoes
and easy favorite in my house similar to
roasting vegetables
you only need a handful of ingredients
but can add some variety and excitement
with different spices or by making a
dipping sauce although I'm using sweet
potatoes you can use white if you prefer
the taste and nutrition are different
but they are both high in potassium and
they taste great when you mix them
together vegetables are divided into
different subgroups because they have
different nutrients sweet potatoes are
in the red and orange subgroup and white
potatoes fall into the starchy subgroup
sweet potatoes are higher in
carbohydrates and therefore higher in
calories but they are a better source of
fiber vitamins a b c and iron i've
already washed my potatoes with a
vegetable brush and preheated my oven to
425 degrees so i'm going to start by
cutting the potatoes into 1/4 inch thick
slices use caution when cutting your
potatoes make sure your knife is clean
and sharp and grip it properly you want
to hold the potato like this to prevent
accidentally cutting your fingers
I start by cutting my potatoes in half
lengthwise and I lay the flat side on
the cutting board
this way I can get a better grip as I
cut I leave the tip of the knife on the
cutting board and I slide the potato
along use the back of the knife and not
the blade to move the potatoes you can
also use your hand to move them out of
the way once cut I need to combine the
potatoes with some canola oil one
tablespoon and some salt
I'm going to stir this all together to
make sure that the potatoes are coated
well with the oil and the salt I've
already covered this cookie sheet with
foil and greased it with a little spray
having the foil on here will make it
easier for cleanup I'm going to spread
these out in a single layer once you get
these in the oven you don't only need to
bake them for about 30 minutes and you
need to stir them halfway through after
about 15 minutes if you want to make a
dipping sauce for these while they're
baking is a great time to make that I
have all my dipping sauce ingredients
right here
it's really easy just a tablespoon of
ketchup a quarter of a cup of mayo and a
little chili powder stir it all together
I'll keep this in the fridge till the
fries are done once the fries are done
in the oven serve them immediately
because they're best when they're hot
well that's it a little prep time some
baking and you can enjoy delicious
homemade oven fries with any meal
visit our website for the full
of the potato dishes I discussed or
check out some of our other
budget-friendly videos
you